<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>War No. 81-Q</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<div class="lgc" style="">
			<!-- rend=';' -->
			<p class="line0">
				<span style="font-size:x-large">War No. 81-Q</span>
			</p>
			<p class="line"> </p>
			<p class="line0">
				<span style="font-size:x-small">by</span>
			</p>
			<p class="line0">
				<span style="font-size:x-large">Cordwainer Smith</span>
			</p>
			<p class="line0">
				<span style="font-size:x-small">a pseudonym for</span>
			</p>
			<p class="line0">
				<span style="font-size:x-large">Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger</span>
			</p>
			<p class="line"> </p>
			<p class="line0">First appeared in <span class="it">The Adjutant</span>, Vol. IX, No 1, June 1928.</p>
			<p class="line0">This was a Linebarger’s first published story, appearing</p>
			<p class="line0">in a high school publication.</p>
			<p class="line0">Note this story was later rewritten; this is the original.</p>
		</div>
		<!-- end rend -->
		<hr class="pbk"/>
		<p class="pindent">(“Karloman Jungahr”)</p>
		<p class="pindent">It came to war.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Tibet and America, each claiming the Radiant Heat Monopoly, applied for a War Permit for 2127, <span class="sc">a.d.</span></p>
		<p class="pindent">The Universal War Board granted it, stating, of course, the conditions. It was, after a few compromises and amendments had been effected, accepted by the belligerent nations.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The conditions were:</p>
		<div class="listEntry">
			<span class="listTag">a.</span>
			<p class="listPara">Five 22,000-ton aero-ships, combinations of aero and dirigible, were to be the only combatants.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="listEntry">
			<span class="listTag">b.</span>
			<p class="listPara">They were to be armed with machine-guns firing nonexplosive bullets only.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="listEntry">
			<span class="listTag">c.</span>
			<p class="listPara">The War Territory of Kerguelen was to be rented by the two nations, the United American Nations and the Mongolian Alliance, for the two hours of the war, which was to begin on January 5, 2127, at noon.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="listEntry">
			<span class="listTag">d.</span>
			<p class="listPara">The nation vanquished was to pay all the expenses of the war, excepting the War Territory Rent.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="listEntry">
			<span class="listTag">e.</span>
			<p class="listPara">No human beings should be on the battlefield. The Mongolian controllers must be in Lhasa; the American ones, in the City of Franklin.</p>
		</div>
		<p class="pindent">The belligerent nations had no difficulty in renting the War Territory of Kerguelen. The rent charged by the Austral League was, as usual, forty million dollars an hour.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Spectators from all over the world rushed to the borders of the Territory, eager to obtain good places. Q-ray telescopes came into tremendous demand.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Mechanics carefully worked over the giant war-machines.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The radio-controls, delicate as watches, were brought to perfection, both at the control stations in Lhasa and in the City of Franklin, and on the war-flyers.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The planes arrived on the minute decided.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Controlled by their pilots thousands of miles away, the great planes swooped and curved, neither fleet daring to make the first move.</p>
		<p class="pindent">There were five American ships, the <span class="it">Prospero</span>, <span class="it">Ariel</span>, <span class="it">Oberon</span>, <span class="it">Caliban</span>, and <span class="it">Titania</span>, and five Chinese ships, rented by the Mongolians, the <span class="it">Han</span>, <span class="it">Yuen</span>, <span class="it">Tsing</span>, <span class="it">Tsin</span>, and <span class="it">Sung</span>.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The Mongolian fleet incurred the displeasure of the spectators by casting a smoke screen, which greatly interfered with the seeing. The <span class="it">Prospero</span>, every gun throbbing, hurled itself into the smoke screen and came out on the other side, out of control, quivering with incoordinating machinery. As it neared the boundary, it was blown up by its pilot, safe and sound, thousands of miles away. But the sacrifice was not in vain. The <span class="it">Han</span> and <span class="it">Sung</span>, both severely crippled, swung slowly out of the mist. The <span class="it">Han</span>, with a list that clearly showed it was doomed, was struck by a lucky shot from the <span class="it">Caliban</span> and fell several hundred feet, its left wing ablaze. But for a second or two, the pilot regained control, and, with a single shot, disabled the <span class="it">Caliban</span>, and then the <span class="it">Han</span> fell to its doom on the rocky islands below.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The <span class="it">Caliban</span> and <span class="it">Sung</span> continued to drift, firing at each other. As soon as it was seen that neither would be of any further use in the battle, they were, by common consent, taken from the field.</p>
		<p class="pindent">There now remained three ships on each side, darting in and out of the smoke screen, occasionally ascending to cool the engines.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Among the spectators, excitement prevailed, for it was announced from the City of Franklin that a new and virtually unknown pilot, Jack Bearden, was going to take command of three ships at once! And never before had one pilot commanded, by radio, more than two ships! Besides, two of the most famous Mongolian aces, Baartek and Soong, were on the field, while an even more famous person, the Chinese mercenary T’ang, commanded the <span class="it">Yuen</span>.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The Americans among the spectators protested that a pilot so young and inexperienced should not be allowed to endanger the ships.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The Government replied that it had a thorough confidence in Bearden’s abilities.</p>
		<p class="pindent">But when the young pilot stepped before the television screen, on which was pictured the battle, and the maze of controls, he realized that his ability had been overestimated, by himself and by everyone else.</p>
		<p class="pindent">He climbed up on the high stool and reached for the speed control levers, which were directly behind him. He leaned back, and fell! His head struck against two buttons: and he saw the <span class="it">Oberon</span> and <span class="it">Titania</span> blow themselves up.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The three enemy ships cooperated in an attack on the <span class="it">Ariel</span>. Bearden swung his ship around and rushed it into the smoke screen.</p>
		<p class="pindent">He saw the huge bulk of the <span class="it">Tsing</span> bear down upon him. He fired instinctively⁠—and hit the control center.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Dodging aside as the <span class="it">Tsing</span> fell past him, he missed the <span class="it">Tsin</span> by inches. The pilot of the <span class="it">Tsin</span> shot at the reinforcements of the <span class="it">Ariel</span>’s right wing, loosening it.</p>
		<p class="pindent">For a few moments, he was alone, or, rather, the <span class="it">Ariel</span> was alone. For he was at the control board in the War Building in the City of Franklin.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The <span class="it">Yuen</span>, controlled by the master-pilot T’ang, rose up from beneath him, shot off the end of his left wing, and vanished into the mists of the smoke screen before the astonished Bearden was able to register a single hit.</p>
		<p class="pindent">He had better luck with the <span class="it">Tsin</span>. When this swooped down on the <span class="it">Ariel</span>, he disabled its firing control. Then, when this plane rose from beneath, intending to ram itself into the <span class="it">Ariel</span>, Bearden dropped half his machine-guns overboard. They struck the <span class="it">Tsin</span>, which exploded immediately.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Now only the <span class="it">Ariel</span> and the <span class="it">Yuen</span> remained! Master-pilot faced master-pilot.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Bearden placed a lucky shot in the <span class="it">Yuen</span>’s rudder, but only partially disabled it.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Yuen threw more smoke-screen bombs overboard.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Bearden rose upward; no, he was still safe and sound in America, but the <span class="it">Ariel</span> rose upward.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The spectators in their helicopters blew whistles, shot off pistols, went mad in applause.</p>
		<p class="pindent">T’ang lowered the <span class="it">Yuen</span> to within several hundred feet of the water.</p>
		<p class="pindent">He was applauded, too.</p>
		<p class="pindent">Bearden inspected his ship with the autotelevisation. It would collapse at the slightest strain.</p>
		<p class="pindent">He wheeled his ship to the right, preparatory to descending.</p>
		<p class="pindent">His left wing broke under the strain: and the <span class="it">Ariel</span> began hurtling downward. He turned his autotelevisation on the <span class="it">Yuen</span>, not daring to see the ship, which carried his reputation, his future, crash.</p>
		<p class="pindent">The <span class="it">Yuen</span> was struck by his left wing, which was falling like a stone. The <span class="it">Yuen</span> exploded forty-six seconds later.</p>
		<p class="pindent">And, by international law, Bearden had won the war for America, with it the honors of war and the possession of the enormous Radiant Heat revenue.</p>
		<p class="pindent">All the world hailed this Lindbergh of the twenty-second century.</p>
	</body>
</html>
